in this segment we're going to very
briefly talk about the second portion of
the natural language understanding
pipeline specifically text generation so
let me remind you what the Nano pipeline
looks like we have understanding and
generation we start from a language like
a sentence and the standings takes it to
some computer presentation that the
computer can understand
and then in the computer wants to
respond to the human it would have to go
through a generation component and
produce language back not oh I know P
systems have to have both of those parts
it's completely reasonable to expect the
system to just understand human language
and then perform some actions without
having to generate anything back it is
also possible for a system to just have
the second part so for example a
computer can have access to the weather
data and then use automatic text
generation to produce weather reports or
it can have access to stock market data
and produce financial reports so what's
the definition of natural language
generation well it is the process of
deliberately constructing some natural
language text in order to meet some
specific communicative goal and the
communicative go maybe we want to give
the specific information to this user in
this particular context using this much
space so this definition is from David
MacDonald 1992 so what is energy one of
its most important components is mapping
meaning to text so this meaning is
typically represented in some semantic
form for example our CCG or FEG
fog and the stages are the following
first you have to perform something
called content selection that is
determining what content you want to
share with the user then you perform a
lexical choice which is deciding what
words to use for example whether to use
a nominal ization or verb to express a
certain concept then you have to perform
something called sentence structure
generation that is performing actions
like aggregation that is collecting
multiple facts into one generating
referring expressions for example poor
nouns and then you also have to worry
about the disk
structure once you know what are the
individual sentences you may want to
generate on this course connectives for
example therefore or consequently or in
addition so that the text flows more
smoothly so here's an example of an
energy system this is the Fogg system
designed by Goldberg at all it has been
in use for more than twenty years now it
is designed to generate weather forecast
reports for the Canadian weather service
in both French and English so its input
is from some numerical simulation data
and notated by humans for example about
France and expected precipitation and
then its output which is a little bit
hard to see here and you can probably
stop and zoom in to see it in more
detail is an actual weather report for a
specific location in one of the two
target languages so one more example of
a generation system is what it was
designed developed at Columbia
University and Belcore in the 90s its
goal was to produce reports that
describe different simulation options
that an engineer who lays cables in a
telephone system has already explored so
the input is a simulation log file and
it was designed and developed by Bell
core and Columbia University in the 90s
so the input is something like this
there is a specific run ID so specific
type of cable that was located in a
particular place at a particular date in
a certain way and then all of those get
collapsed into one output so it's
something like this this saved fiber
refinement includes all DL C changes in
run ID all DLC period run ID fiber all
demanded that plan activate fiber for
CSAs 1201 1301 and so on in second
quarter of 95 period it requested the
placement of a 48 fiber cable from the
co to section 11 or V and so on so this
is the output of the system which used
forth and surge to generation systems
developed at Columbia in the mid-90s so
in text innovation there's some
important
considerations I mentioned some of them
already but they all have to deal with
choices so you can consider each of
those is some sort of a classifier that
takes multiple inputs and you have to
decide which one to take
so the choices are about the content
what you want to say coherence how to
make the text flow coherently the style
the media so media refers to the fact
that you can generate multimedia
presentations that involve let's say
some of the information in visual form
and the rest in texture form and you
have to balance the amount of
information conveyed by each of those
media you also have to determine what
syntactic structure to use for example
whether to use a nominal ization or firm
you have to aggregate facts so that you
get more concise sentences so instead of
saying for example there is a cable in
unit 1 and there is a cable in unit 2
you may say something like there are two
cables in units one and two you also
have to figure out how to generate
inferring expressions so that the text
doesn't look completely automatically
generated and you have to worry about
the lexical choice what were the most
appropriate in the given context so this
is the end of the introduction to
natural language generation we're going
to continue in the next segment